Task 06 - Git Rebase and Clean History Management

Commands Used

1. git switch -c feature/user-authentication
   Creates and switches to the feature/user-authentication branch.

2. touch auth.js
   Creates the authentication module file.

3. git add auth.js
   Stages the authentication module.

4. git commit -m "feat(auth): add authentication module"
   Creates the first feature commit.

5. Modify package.json.

6. git add package.json
   Stages the package.json changes.

7. git commit -m "chore: update package.json for authentication"
   Creates the second commit.

8. Modify package.json to introduce a typo fix.

9. git add package.json

10. git commit -m "fix: typo"
    Creates the typo fix commit.

11. touch middleware.js
    Creates the middleware file.

12. git add middleware.js

13. git commit -m "feat(auth): add authentication middleware"
    Adds the authentication middleware.

14. touch auth.test.js
    Creates the test file.

15. git add auth.test.js

16. git commit -m "test(auth): add authentication tests"
    Adds authentication tests.

17. git rebase -i HEAD~4
    Starts an interactive rebase for the last four commits.

18. Changed "pick" to "squash" for the "fix: typo" commit and completed the rebase.

19. git switch main
    Switches back to the main branch.

20. touch LICENSE
    Creates a LICENSE file.

21. git add LICENSE

22. git commit -m "docs: add license"
    Simulates another developer making changes on the main branch.

23. git switch feature/user-authentication
    Switches back to the feature branch.

24. git rebase main
    Rebases the feature branch onto the updated main branch.

25. git switch main
    Switches back to the main branch.

26. git switch -c test-merge
    Creates a separate branch for comparing the merge workflow.

27. git merge feature/user-authentication
    Merges the rebased feature branch.

28. git log --graph --oneline --all
    Displays the complete commit graph.

29. git log --oneline
    Displays the linear commit history.

Before Interactive Rebase (git log --oneline)

test(auth): add authentication tests
feat(auth): add authentication middleware
fix: typo
chore: update package.json for authentication
feat(auth): add authentication module

After Interactive Rebase (git log --oneline)

test(auth): add authentication tests
feat(auth): add authentication middleware
chore: update package.json for authentication
feat(auth): add authentication module

The "fix: typo" commit was squashed into the previous commit, resulting in a cleaner commit history.

Rebase vs Merge

Rebase is used to create a clean, linear commit history by replaying commits on top of another branch. It is useful for cleaning up local commits before merging a feature branch.

Merge combines the histories of two branches while preserving the complete branch history. It creates a merge commit when necessary and is commonly used when integrating completed work into a shared branch.

Challenges Encountered

- I accidentally typed "it switch" instead of "git switch", resulting in a command not found error.
- During the interactive rebase, I changed the "fix: typo" commit to "squash" so it was combined with the previous commit.
- Git then opened the commit message editor, where I kept the previous commit message and completed the rebase.
- After creating a new commit on the main branch, I successfully rebased the feature branch onto the updated main branch without conflicts.
- I created a separate test-merge branch to compare the merge workflow after rebasing.
